How to do change DNS  website namecheap
To change the DNS for your domain in Namecheap, you need to:


Log in to your Namecheap account and go to the Domain List section.
Click on the Manage button next to the domain you want to change the DNS for.
Find the Nameservers section and select Custom DNS from the drop-down menu.
Enter the nameservers you want to use and click on the green checkmark to save the changes
what is DNS
The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical and distributed naming system for computers, services, and other resources in the Internet or other Internet Protocol (IP) networks. It associates various information with domain names (identification strings) assigned to each of the associated entities.

In simpler terms, DNS is like a phonebook for the internet. It translates domain names (like namecheap.com) into IP addresses (like 192.0.2.1) so that computers can communicate with each other
How does DNS work
The process of DNS resolution involves converting a hostname (such as www.example.com) into a computer-friendly IP address (such as 192.168.1.1). An IP address is given to each device on the Internet, and that address is necessary to find the appropriate Internet device - like a street address is used to find a particular home. When a user wants to load a webpage, a translation must occur between what a user types into their web browser (example.com) and the machine-friendly address necessary to locate the example.com webpage 2.

To understand how DNS works, it’s important to learn about the different hardware components a DNS query must pass between. For the web browser, the DNS lookup occurs “behind the scenes” and requires no interaction from the user’s computer apart from the initial request. There are 4 DNS servers involved in loading a webpage:

DNS recursor - The recursor can be thought of as a librarian who is asked to go find a particular book somewhere in a library. The DNS recursor is a server designed to receive queries from client machines through applications such as web browsers. Typically the recursor is then responsible for making additional requests in order to satisfy the client’s DNS query.
Root nameserver - The root server is the first step in translating (resolving) human readable host names into IP addresses. It can be thought of like an index in a library that points to different racks of books - typically it serves as a reference to other more specific locations.
TLD nameserver - The top level domain server (TLD) can be thought of as a specific rack of books in a library. This nameserver is the next step in the search for a specific IP address, and it hosts the last portion of a hostname (In example.com, the TLD server is “com”).
Authoritative nameserver - This final nameserver can be thought of as a dictionary on a rack of books, in which a specific name can be translated into its definition.
I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any other questions.
